In this project, we studied the causality pathway between Gut microbiota abundance and structural Imaging-derived phenotypes (IDPs) using two sample-Mendelian Randomization (MR). 
According to the previous studies, Gut microbiota abundance has significant causal relation with psychiatric disorders, inflammation, and immune system. Based on these evidence, we decided to understand the potential relation between Gut microbiota and IDPs utilizing two sample-MR. 
We used the summary statistics of two GWASs. For Gut microbiota, we used the largest Gut microbiota GWAS (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41588-020-00763-1). In this study, genome-wide association analysis has been performed on 211 microbial taxa in 18,340 individuals (24 cohorts). For IDPs, we used the study of T. Elliott et al. study (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-021-00826-4). In this study the GWAS has been performed for 3935 IDPs on 8,428 individuals. 
We run forward as well as reverse two sample-MR. In forward MR, we assumed Gut microbiota abundance as exposures and IDPs as outcomes. As well, in reverse MR, IDPs have been considered as exposures and Gut microbiota abundance as outcomes. 
Before getting to the main analysis, we filtered both exposures and outcomes based on the heritability. Moreover only structural IDPs were included to the study. Thus, we run two sample-MR on 61 microbial taxa and 2130 IDPs. 
The details of each step including extracting instrumental variables, clumping, harmonization, MR, and all sensivity tests have been described in the .R files. 
In "Forward_MR.R" file, the forward two sample-MR codes with description of each stage has been described. In "Reverse_MR.R" file, the reverse two sample-MR codes with details of each stage has been shown. In "Installation.R" file, the process of installing required packages for this study have been demonstrated. 
Finally, in brief, we found that phylum Proteobacteria, genus Eggerthella, genus Ruminococcaceae, and family Veillonellaceae show significant causal relationship with different brain regions' cortical and subcortical volume and difussion MRI features.
